Animal between 1 and 2 years old`yearling
What sort of animal is an Addaz.`Antelope
Animal of which the bontebok and kudu are types`antelope
Animal of which the bontebok & kudu are types`antelope
Animal or plant without the normal pigmentation of its species?`albino
Animal or plant without the normal pigmentation of its species`Albino
2002, Crufts - which breed of dog was chosen as Best in Show`poodle
A deep sea shark, feeds on plankton`Megamouth
After which marine animal is L'Anse aux Meadows in Newfoundland named`jellyfish
A group of kangaroos is called a(n) ___?`Mob
A group of owls is called a(n) ____?`Parliament
A group of ravens is called a(n) ___?`Murder
A group of rhinos is called a(n) ____?`Crash
A hedgehog's heart beats how many times a minute on average?`Three hundred
An aquatic beaver like rodent native to south america but which has become naturalised in parts of europe`coypu
Another name for a German Shepherd`alsatian
Another name for an Alsatian dog`german shepherd
A silvery freshwater fish with a long dorsal fin`grayling
A single WHAT may catch and eat as many as 10,000 insects in the course of a summer`toad
Australian egg laying mammal with webbed feet`duck-billed platypus
Bactrian or dromedary`camel
Breed of dog that Lassie is`collie
By what name is the Tibetan Lion Dog better known`Shih Tzu
Creature of which the echida is an example`anteater
Cross between a collie and a greyhound`lurcher
Everyone knows you can call a group of fish a school, but what else can you call it`drought
Extinct bird of Mauritius`dodo
Fish with  long snakelike bodies, smooth slimey skin and reduced fins`eels
Food for horses or cattle particularly straw or hay`forage
fourth stomach of a ruminant`Abomasum
From which category of animal does the dik-dik come`antelope
From which category of animal does the eland come`antelope
From which category of animal does the impala come`antelope
From which species is the London pigeon descended`rock dove
ANIMALS; from which species of goat is mohair obtained`angora
Furry, omnivorous american mammals each with a ringed bushy tail and dark stripe across the face`raccoons
german shepherd dog`alsatian
How long did the longest recorded flight of a chicken last, in seconds?`Thirteen
How long does an orgasm of a pig last, in minutes?`Thirty
How many hearts do earthworms have?`Five
How many hours does an antelope sleep at night?`one
How many legs does a crab have?`Ten
How many tentacles does a Squid have?`Ten
Humped ox of India, East asia and africa`Zebu
If an animal is an operculate what characteristics does it have`gills
In the animal kingdom, the tiger is native to only one continent`asia
Invertebrate with tufted gills living in burrows in muddy sand, often used as bait by fishermen`lugworm
Joint on a horses hind leg`hock
Large Iguana - like reptiles peculiar to New Zealand`Tuatara
Large marine diving ducks with long narrow hooked bills with serrated edges`mergansers
Large pachydermatous african and s asian animal, quadruped with horn or two horns on nose`rhinoceros
Large wasp, Vespa crabro, capable of inflicting a severe sting`hornet
Lupine animal`wolf
Mainly which creatures belong to the order arachnida`spider
Male honey bee`drone
Merrythought is one of the popular names for which bony structure on a bird`wishbone
Migratory bird with long wings and forked tail`swallow
Name for a group of salmon`bind
Name for the dirt covered clump of wool on a sheeps rear end (Nice!)`daglock
Name given to young cows`heifers
Name of the cloned sheep born in 1997`dolly
name of which Russian explorer was given to the wild horse which he discovered in western Mongolia in the late 1870s`nikolai przhevalski
Nocturnal mammal of southern Africa with a long extendible tongue`Aardvark
North american elk`moose
Old World bird with plain brown plumage, inhabiting marshes and similar habitats`Reed Warbler
One that feeds off the flesh of its own species`cannibal
On which island off Iceland was the last known great auk killed in 1844`ldey
Organ that keeps a fish afloat`Swim bladder
Puffinus puffinus, is the latin for which bird -hint, it is not the puffin!`manx shearwater
Relating to anthropoid apes`simian
sea eagle`erne
Shorthorn cattle were the first breed to have their own herdbook, in which county were they developed`durham
Sleeping sickness is carried by which insect?`Tsetse fly
Small armoured animal able to walk under water`armadillo
Small catarrhine monkey common in N India`rhesus
Stoats white winter fur`ermine
Sun, spectacled, brown and sloth are all types of what`bear
Tha larva of which insect is the rat tailed maggot`hoverfly
Animals that once existed and exist no more, are called ______`Extinct
Animals that once existed but don't exist now are said to be`Extinct
Animals that prey on game, such as foxes or weasels`vermin
The Camberwell beauty, what is this butterfly called in the USA`mourning cloak
The herdwick sheep is particularly found in which english national park`lake district
The name of which breed of dog means badger dog in german`dachshund
There are about 130 species of`owl
There are about 40 different ---------- in a birds wing`muscles
There are about 5,000 species of ---------- known. Only about half of them build reefs`coral
There are close to 4,000 known species of frogs, including`toads
There are more than 450 species of ---------- throughout the world`finches
There are no wild deer of any kind in Australia, and the small red deer is the only one found in`Africa
The Tasmanian Devil is native to which country`australia
Thinking that its parents were a camel and a leopard, the Europeans once called the animal a "cameleopard". Today, it is called the`giraffe
Thoth, the ancient egyptian god of wisdom was usually depicted with the head of which bird`ibis
If a rabbits front teeth were not worn down by eating, to what length could they grow`ten feet
To which animal does the adjsctive viverrine apply`ferrets
To which group of animals do the cayman and the gavial belong`crocodile
unidentified animal said to live in the Himalayas`Abominable snowman
Web footed cackling birds`geese
What animal has bony plates and rolls up into a ball if its frightened?`Armadillo
What are fingerlings`baby salmon
What characterises stags that are referred to a hummels`no antlers
What colour is a giraffes tongue`blue
What disease is carried by the Tsetse fly?`Sleeping sickness
What do crocodiles swallow to enable them to dive deeper`Rocks
What is a collective word for a group of foxes`skulk
What is a dork?`A whale's penis
What is a female cat?`Queen
What is a female deer?`Doe
what is a gribble`crustacean
What is a group of donkeys called?`Herd
What is a group of geese called?`Gaggle
What is a Hen less than a year old called`A Pullet
What is also known as a pillbug (they were once used for medicinal purposes and swallowed like pills - yuk!!!)`woodlouse
What is a male cat?`Tom
What is a male deer?`Buck
What is a mature horse below the height of 14 and a half hands called`pony
What is an alan`hunting dog
What is an army worm`caterpillar
What is a Rana esculenta`edible frog
What is a smaller form of Kangeroo usually called`wallaby
What is a whale's penis called?`A Dork
What is the axolotl also called`salamander
What is the collective term that is used to refer to animals that feed on the remains of dead animals or plants`detrivore
What is the common name for the bird Passer domesticus`house sparrow
What is the common name for the furcula in birds`wishbone
What is the correct collective name for a litter of piglets`farrow
What is the distinguishing feature of an animal classed as an ungulate`hooves
What is the favorite fruit of the orang-utan`durian
What is the heart rate of the Blue Whale? How many beats per minute?`Nine
What is the most poisonous fish in the world`stonefish
What is the most venomous snake?`King Cobra
What is the name for a pregnant gold fish?`Twit
What is the name of the largest lizard?`Komodo dragon
What is the only insect that can turn its head?`Praying mantis
What is the only member of the cat family that cannot fully retract its claws`cheetah
What is the popular name for crane flies`daddy long legs
What is the smallest british bird`goldcrest
What is the third name for the cougar or mountain lion`puma
What kind of animal is a boomslang`snake
What kind of animal is a Dandie Dinmont`scottish hunting terrier
What kind of animal is a quagga`zebra
What kind of animal is a snow shoe rabbit`Hare
What kind of animal is a wapiti`american elk
ANIMALS; What kind of animal was featured in Gavin Maxwells 1960 best seller A ring of Bright Water`otter
What name is given to a cows first milk after calving`beestings
What name is given to a larva of the salamander whish never fully develops because of a hormone deficiency although it can breed`axolotl
What name is given to a male falcon`tiercel
What name is given to young salmon which has been to sea only once`grilse
What physical characteristic do pinnipeds have`fins for feet
What sort of insects belong to the order Odonata`dragonflies
What type of animal is a Lippizaner`horse
What type of bird is the Liver bird found on coats of arms of Liverpool`cormorant
What type of creature is a colobus`monkey
What were dachshunds originally bred to hunt`badgers
Where do British swallows spend the winter`africa
Where do demersal animals live`SEABED
Which animal always has 4 babies at a time, all the same sex?`Armadillo
Which animal can live several weeks without its head - eventually dying from starvation?`A cockroach
Which animal has four noses?`A slug
Which animal has the largest eyes?`Giant squid
Which animal has three eyelids to protect itself from blowing sand?`Camel
Which animal is sometimes known as In velvet`deer
Which animal lives in a citadel`mole
Which animals are known for their blue and red faces and bums`mandrills
Which animals collect in a crash`rhinoceroses
Which animals is commonly known as The buhmans clock`kookaburra
Which animals latin name is bufo bufo`toad
Which animal throws up by letting its stomach dangle out of its mouth, emptying the contents with its arms, then swallowing the stomach?`Frog
Which animal was traditionally called Russell`fox
Which Australian bird is known as the Laughing Jackass`kookaburra
Which bird, crex crex, has a cry which can be imitated by moving two notched bones across one another`corncrake
Which bird is also known as Cuddys duck because St Cuthbert protected it`eider
Which bird is named after its habit of up ending stones to look for shellfish`turnstone
Which bird is stuffed and displayed in the MCC Museumat Lords having been hit and killed by a cricket ball`house sparrow
Which bird, popular as a cage bird, syMbolised the Passion of Christ in medieval religious paintings`goldfinch
Which bird reestablished itself in Suffolk in the late 1940s and is the symbol of the RSPB`avocet
 Which breed of horse is tradionally ridden by the Spanish Riding School in Vienna`lipizzaner
Which crab, having no hard shell of its own, protects itself by taking over the shells of dead molluscs`hermit crab
Which creature gets its name from the spanish for lizard`alligator
Which female animal on  heat, seeks sex an average of 20 times a day`chimpanzee
Which is the only animal besides human that can get leprosy?`Armadillo
Which is the only endemic species of bird confined entirely to Britain`scottish crossbill
Which is the smallest mammal in the world`the pygmy shrew
Which member of the anura order of amphibians was once used in pregnancy tests`clawed toad
Which of the big cats have tear stain facial markings`cheetahs
Which pigment is obtained from cuttlefish and squid`sepia
Which proboscis has 40,000 muscles`elephants trunk
Which sinister sounding beetle is a pest in the timbers of old buildings`deathwatch beetle
which woodland birs performs a roding display flight in the breeding season`woodcock
Whooper, mute and Bewicks are all types of what`swan
Wild ass`onager
With which mammal is the disease rabies commonly associated`dogs
Woolly haired South amrican animal`llama
Young swan`cygnet
A 42-foot sperm whale has about 7 tons of ---------- in it.`oil
A 4-inch-long ---------- can grip a rock with a force of 400 pounds. Two grown men are incapable of prying it up.`abalone
A baby gray ---------- drinks enough milk to fill more than 2,000 bottles a day.`whale
A baby ---------- is about six feet tall at birth.`giraffe
A bear in hibernation loses up to 25 percent of its ----------`body weight
A bird "chews" with its stomach. Since most birds do not have teeth, a bird routinely swallows small pebbles and gravel. These grits become vigorously agitated in the bird's stomach and serve to grind food as it passes through the ----------`digestive system
A bird sees everything at once in total focus. Whereas the human eye is globular and must adjust to varying distances, the bird's eye is flat and can take in everything at once in a(n) ----------`single glance
A bison can jump ----------`6 feet
About 24 newborn opossums can fit in a teaspoon. They are about .07 ounce at ----------`birth
A camel can shut its nostrils during a`sandstorm
a camel with one hump is a dromedary, while a camel with two humps is a`bactrian
A(n) ---------- can advance 7 to 8 meters in a single stride, and the animal completes four strides per second. A stride is measured as the distance between successive imprints of the same paw.`cheetah
A(n) ---------- can fall from a 5-story building without injury.`rat
A(n) ---------- can go without water longer than a camel can.`giraffe
A(n) ---------- can go without water longer than a camel can.`rat
A(n) ---------- can lose up to 30 percent of its body weight in perspiration and continue to cross the desert. A human would die of heat shock after sweating away only 12 percent of body weight.`camel
A(n) ---------- cannot jump if its tail is lifted off the ground. It needs its tail for pushing off.`kangaroo
A(n) ---------- can open its mouth wide enough to accommodate a 4-foot-tall child.`hippopotamus
A(n) ---------- can remember a specific tone far better than can a human.`dolphin
A(n) ---------- can squeeze through an opening no larger than a dime.`rat
A(n) ---------- can swallow a rabbit whole and may eat as many as 150 mice in a 6-month period.`python
A carnivore is a meat-eating animal. A(n) ---------- is a fruit-eating animal.`frugivore
A cat has 32 muscles in ----------`each ear
A cat's arching back is part of a complex body language system, usually associated with feeling threatened. The arch is able to get so high because the cat's spine contains nearly 60 vertebrae which fit loosely together. Humans have only ----------`34 vertebrae
A cat's ---------- can't move sideways.`jaw
A cat uses its whiskers to determine if a space is too small to squeeze through. The whiskers act as feelers or ----------, helping the animal to judge the precise width of any passage.`antennae
According to experts, ---------- don't like to head straight for anything. For safety, they may run past and sweep around from the side.`squirrels
According to several studies, less than 3 percent of the ---------- population become man-eaters.`tiger
According to the National Wild Turkey Federation, the number of wild turkeys in the U.S. has increased from an all time low of 30,000 to more than 4 million today. One state park in Iowa now boasts more than ---------- turkeys per square mile.`one hundred
According to zoology experts, there is no real difference between doves and ----------. The choice of name rests almost altogether on custom and geography, although the smaller of the species is, more often than not, called a dove.`pigeons
A(n) ---------- consumes about 33 percent of its body weight in a single meal.`pelican
A cow can't ---------- until she's given birth to a calf.`give milk
A crocodile can't stick out its ----------`tongue
Ad lie ---------- employ yawning as part of their courtship ritual`penguins
Adlie ---------- employ yawning as part of their courtship ritual.`penguins
A dog's ---------- has over 200 scent receiving cells.`nose
A donkey is an "as#", but an as# is not always a donkey. The word "as#" refers to several hoofed mammals of the genus Equus, including the`onager
A donkey is an "ass", but an ass is not always a donkey. The word "ass" refers to several hoofed mammals of the genus Equus, including the ----------`onager
AdTlie ---------- employ yawning as part of their courtship ritual`penguins
Adult electric eels 5ft to 7ft long produce enough electricity -- 600 volts -- to stun a(n) ----------`horse
Adult polar bears usually eat just the skin and blubber of a seal. They leave the meat for cubs and scavengers. One seal will sustain an adult bear for ----------`11 days
A famous stallion will, on retirement, command an impressive stud fee for servicing approved mares. Specialist stud-farms house one or more stallions, each of which is allowed to service about ---------- per season.`40 mares
A(n) ---------- fish can swim 100 miles in a single day.`tuna
A(n) ---------- focuses its eye by changing the angle of its head, not by changing the shape of the lens of the eye, as humans do.`horse
A fox litter is typically 10 to 15 ----------`pups
A full-grown ---------- may be 8 feet high at the shoulder and weigh almost a ton.`moose
A garter snake can give birth to ----------`85 babies
A giant Pacific ---------- can fit its entire body through an opening no bigger than the size of its beak.`octopus
A giraffe's sticky, black tongue can be more than 18 inches long and is used to gather food into the mouth. Males typically feed with their head and neck at full vertical stretch, often with their tongues extended to reach the shoots on the underside of the mature tree canopy. Females feed at the body or knee height, with their necks ----------`curled over
A(n) ---------- gives nearly 200,000 glasses of milk in her lifetime.`cow
A group of bees can be called either a hive, a swarm, or a(n) ----------`grist
A group of foxes is called a(n) ----------`skulk
A group of owls is called a(n) ----------`parliament
A(n) ---------- has about 400 to 700 vibrissae, or whiskers, in 13 to 15 rows on its snout. Vibrissae are attached to muscles and are supplied with blood and nerves. A(n) ---------- moves its snout through bottom sediment to find food. Abrasion patterns created by their tusks show that they are dragged through the sediment, but are not used to dig up prey.`walrus
A(n) ---------- has no color vision, it sees only in black and white. Every part of its field of vision, however, is in perfect focus, not just straight ahead, as with humans.`squirrel
A herd of sixty cows is capable of producing a ton of milk in less than a(n) ----------`day
A hibernating woodchuck breathes only ten times per hour. An ---------- woodchuck breathes 2,100 times an hour.`active
A hippopotamus can run faster than a(n) ----------`man
A hippopotamus has a stomach 10 feet long, capable of holding 6 bushels of ----------`grass
A Holstein cow's spots are like a(n) ---------- or a snowflake; no two cows have exactly the same pattern of spots.`fingerprint
A horse can sleep ----------`standing up
A horseshoe for a full-grown Clydesdale measures more that ---------- inches from end to end and weighs about five pounds. It is more than two times as long and four times as heavy as a shoe worn by a riding horse.`twenty two
A(n) ---------- in the wild usually makes no more than 20 kills a year.`lion
A jynx is a(n) ----------, also know as the wryneck because of its peculiar habit of twisting its neck.`woodpecker
A(n) ---------- keeps purring, no matter if it is inhaling or exhaling, a baffling accomplishment.`cat
A King Cobra is the biggest of all poisonous snakes and can grow to over 13 feet long. A bite from a King Cobra can kill an elephant in ----------`4 hours
A large Caribbean ---------- excretes a ton of sand a year. Using two oversized front teeth, it nibbles on seagrass and scrapes algae. Another set of teeth in its throat grinds up the coral it ingests.`parrot fish
All cows are females; the males are called ----------`bulls
Alligators and ---------- have something in common, at least auditorily. They can hear notes only up to 4,000 vibrations a second.`old people
All mammals have ----------`tongues
All porcupines float in ----------`water
Almost half the pigs in the world are kept by farmers in ----------`china
Although beavers live near rivers, streams, and lakes - they do not eat fish. Beavers eat only plants. They eat poplar trees, carrots, cattail, mushrooms, potatoes, berries, water plants, swamp wood, and fruit. Soft ---------- is the main food for a beaver.`bark
Although manatees are excellent ----------, the deepest that one has been observed diving is 33 feet. Typically, the large, gentle creatures feed no deeper than about ten feet below the surface of the water.`swimmers
Although the last of the ---------- in captivity died in Hobart in 1935, some may still roam Tasmania's high country. The wolflike marsupial's scientific name, Thylacinus cynocephalus, means "the pouched dog with a wolf head."`tasmanian devils
A male baboon can kill a(n) ----------`leopard
A male ---------- becomes fully feathered when he is three years old, but can mate earlier.`peacock
A male kangaroo is called a boomer, and a female is called a(n) ----------`flyer
A male pig is a boar. A female pig is a sow. A baby pig is a(n) ----------`piglet
A male ---------- that has been neutered is known as a "wether."`goat
A marine catfish can taste with any part of its body. The female marine catfish hatches her eggs in her ----------`mouth
A mated pair of ---------- can produce up to 15,000 babies in one year.`rats
Americans consume more than 353 million pounds of turkey during National Turkey Lovers' Month (June). By comparison, more than 675 million pounds of turkey will be consumed at ----------`thanksgiving
A mole can dig a tunnel ---------- feet long in one night.`three hundred
A mother ---------- often gives birth while standing, so the newborn's first experience outside the womb is a 1.8-meter (6-foot) drop. Ouch!`giraffe
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles away, and warns off intruders or reunites scattered members of the ----------`pride
An adult walrus typically eats about 3,000 ---------- per day.`clams
An alpaca is sheared only once every two years and yields only about 5 or 6 pounds of wool at each shearing. Because the yield is so small and the material so desirable, alpaca wool is ----------`very expensive
An average-size ---------- weighs about 150 pounds.`aardvark
An ---------- can go through 2,000 to 3,000 teeth in a lifetime.`alligator
Ancient Egyptians believed that "Bast" was the mother of all cats on Earth. They also believed that cats were ----------`sacred animals
An ----------, despite its ponderous appearance, can reach speeds up to 25 miles per hours on an open stretch.`elephant
---------- and short-tailed shrews get by on only two hours of sleep a day.`elephants
An eagle can attack, kill, and carry away an animal as large as a young deer. The Harpy eagle of South America feed on ----------`monkeys
An ---------- egg can make eleven-and-a-half omelets.`ostrich
An elephant may consume 500 pounds of hay and 60 gallons of water in a(n) ----------`single day
----------, an essential ingredient of many expensive cosmetics, is, in its native form, a foul-smelling, waxy, tarlike substance extracted from the fleece of sheep.`lanolin
A(n) ---------- never actually sees the food as it eats, since its eyes are on top of its head and its mouth and nostrils are on the bottom.`stingray
A newborn Chinese water ---------- is so small it can almost be held in the palm of the hand.`deer
A newborn gray whale calf is an average 16 feet long. For reasons unknown, all gray whale calves are born in the warm, shallow lagoons of Baja, ----------`california
A newborn turkey chick has to be taught to eat, or it will starve. Breeders spread feed underfoot, hoping the little ones will peck at it and get the idea. Turkeys tend to look up with their mouths open during rainstorms. As a result, many ----------`drown
An extinct species of ---------- had a head the size of a Shetland pony's and reached a height of more than ten feet.`kangaroo
An ---------- is nearly 6 feet long, yet its mouth is only an inch wide.`anteater
An ---------- may weigh as much as 300 pounds. Its intestinal tract is 45 feet long.`ostrich
the rumen, the recticulum (storage area), the omasum (where water is absorbed), and the abomasum ( the only compartment with digestive juices).`four
An ostrich's eye is bigger than its ----------`brain
An ox is a castrated bull. A mule is a sterile cross between a male ass and a(n) ----------`female horse
Antlers and horns are not the same. Horns grow throughout an animal's life and are found on both the male and female of a species. Antlers, composed of a different chemical substance, are shed ----------`every year
A plaice, a large European flounder, can lie on a checkerboard and reproduce on its upper surface the same pattern of squares, for ----------`camouflage
A pregnant goldfish is called a(n) ----------`twat
A pregnant goldfish is called a(n) ----------`twit
A quarter horse gets its name from its speed in running the ----------`quarter-mile
A rarity in birds, geese are among the very few in which the family stays together at the end of the ---------- season. Parents and the young raised during the summer establish strong family bonds and do not break up for about a year. In the fall, geese migrate in flocks that contain other family units, and each family stays together on the wintering grounds.`breeding
Arctic terns found in North America and the Arctic migrate each year as far south as Antarctica and back, a round trip of over 18,000 miles. Theirs is probably the longest ----------`migratory flight
---------- are freeze-tolerant and spend winters frozen on land, only to thaw in the spring and begin their breeding process in vernal ponds.`wood frogs
---------- are powerful jumpers. A 20-inch adult can leap 20 feet in a single bound.`jackrabbits
---------- are social birds that congregate in huge flocks. While the flock grazes in a field, lookouts will be posted to watch for approaching danger. They'll raise the alarm if humans approach.`crows
___ are the largest of the minnows it's a big family, including over 300 american species, mainly small freshwater fishes. true minnows are soft-rayed fish with teeth in their throats only`carp
---------- are the largest of the minnows - it's a big family, including over 300 American species, mainly small freshwater fishes. True minnows (family Cyprinidae) are soft-rayed fishes with teeth in their throats only.`carp
---------- are the only animals born with horns. Both males and females are born with bony knobs on the forehead.`giraffes
---------- are the only truly social cat species, and usually every female in a pride, ranging from 5 to 30 individuals, is closely related`lions
---------- are the smallest breed of dog used for hunting. They are low to the ground, which allows them to enter and maneuver through tunnels easily.`dachshunds
---------- are voluntary breathers. For this reason, they sleep with only half of their brain at one time. The other half remains alert to regulate breathing. Resident whales typically remain near the surface, breathing and swimming in a pattern. When traveling together, resident pods have been observed to breathe in unison. Although it is not known why this occurs, it could be a way of helping the pod keep tabs on one another.`orca whales
___ are voluntary breathers. for this reason, they sleep with only half of their brain at one time. the other half remains alert to regulate breathing. resident whales typically remain near the surface, breathing and swimming in a pattern. when traveling together, resident pods have been observed to breathe in unison`orca whales
A rhinoceros has ---------- toes on each foot.`three
A robin has nearly 3,000 ----------`feathers
A rodent's teeth never stop growing. They are worn down by the animal's constant gnawing on bark, leaves, and other ----------`vegetable matter
As a rule, many birds generally lay fewer eggs in a clutch in the ----------, where the amount of daylight is shorter than in northern latitudes. It is in the northern reaches of the world that more summer food for birds is available as a result of the longer days.`tropics
A shrimp has more than a hundred pairs of chromosomes in each cell nucleus. Man has only ----------`twenty three
A shrimp has ---------- pairs of legs.`five
A single ----------, with its razor-sharp teeth, is still dangerous enough when out of water to rip off the flesh, or a finger or toe, from an unwary fisherman.`piranha
A skunk will not ---------- and throw its scent at the same time.`bite
A snail speeding along at three inches per minute would need 15 days to travel ----------`one mile
A snake is capable of eating an animal four times larger than the width of its own ----------`head
A snake's ---------- is located in the front one-fifth portion of its body.`stomach
A South African ---------- can grow to be 35 inches (90 cm) in length - longer than your arm.`bullfrog
A species of ---------- known as the Linckia columbiae can reproduce its entire body - that is, grow back completely - from a single severed pieces less than a half-inch long.`starfish
A species of sponge, called the red sponge, can be pushed through a piece of fabric so that it is broken into thousands of tiny pieces. The animal does not die. Rather, all the pieces reassemble until the sponge returns to its ----------`original form
At birth, a(n) ---------- is smaller than a mouse and weighs about four ounces.`panda
At birth, baby ---------- are only about an inch long - no bigger than a large waterbug or a queen bee.`kangaroos
At birth, the white whale is ----------`black
A tiger's paw prints are called ----------. A tiger's forefeet have five toes and the hind feet have four toes. All toes have claws. The claws are 80 to 100 mm in length.`pug marks
Atlantic ---------- are able to leap 15 feet high.`salmon
At seven inches long, the Wilson's storm petrel is the smallest bird to breed on the ----------`antarctic continent
A type of lizard, the ----------, escapes pursuers by crawling into a crack in a rock and inflating its body with air so that it is wedged tightly into the crack and can't be pulled out.`chuckwalla
Australia's ---------- is the world's most dangerous jellyfish. Its toxin is more potent than cobra venom and can kill a person in minutes`box jelly
A(n) ---------- weighing 120 pounds exerts a force of about 1,540 pounds between its jaws. A human being's jaws exert a force of only 40 to 80 pounds.`crocodile
A(n) ---------- weighs about 1,400 pounds and eats about 55 pounds of food per day.`cow
A wild cat, known as "the fishing cat" actually swims to catch fish. Called the Bengali Mach-Bagral, nature gave this cat extra-long claws, which it uses like fishhooks. The fishing cat is found in Nepal, Burma, Southern China and parts of ----------`india
A(n) ---------- will lay bigger and stronger eggs if you change the lighting in such a way as to make them think a day is 28 hours long.`chicken
A "winkle" is an edible ----------`sea snail
A wolf's odor detecting ability is ---------- times greater than man's.`one hundred
A woodchuck breathes only ten times per hour while ----------, while an active woodchuck breathes 2,100 times an hour.`hibernating
A young male fur ---------- that is kept from the breeding grounds by the older males is called a bachelor.`seal
A young pigeon that has not yet flown is a(n) ----------`squab
Baby beavers are called kits or ----------`kittens
Baby mink are born blind and remain sightless for a(n) ----------`month
Baby opossums - upon birth when they move to the mother's pouch - are smaller than honeybees. An entire litter can fit in a(n) ----------`teaspoon
Baby rattlesnakes are born in August and ----------`september
Bald eagles are not bald. The top of their head is covered with slicked-down white feathers; from a distance, they appear ----------`hairless
Bats are the only mammals that are able to fly. The "flying squirrel" can only do what the gliding opposum does - glide for short ----------`distances
---------- bats do not suck blood. They bite, then lick up the flow.`vampire
Because baby pigs grow so quickly, a succession of 48 little pigs were used in the title role during the filming of the 1995 movie hit ----------`babe
Because birds carrying messages were often killed in flight by hawks, medieval Arabs made a habit of sending important messages ----------`twice
Because it is continually losing body heat, the ---------- must keep moving to stay warm. If inactive for more than a few hours, the animal will lose enough body heat to freeze to death.`shrew
Because its eyeball is fixed, the ---------- must move its huge body to shift its line of sight.`whale
Because its tongue is too short for its beak, the ---------- must juggle its food before swallowing it.`toucan
Because of the giant panda's large size and the small size of their offspring, it is difficult to tell when a panda is ----------`pregnant
Because of their acute sense of smell, dogs are trained to sniff out everything from drugs to bombs to iron ore. In Ontario, Canada, instruments couldn't locate where natural gas was escaping from a pipeline buried 18 feet underground. Trained ---------- were brought in. The dogs worked in sub-zero temperatures and covered nearly 100 miles of frozen ground, ultimately finding more than 150 gas leaks.`german shepherds
Because the natural habitat of ---------- is of little use to man - the alkaline African lake waters support few fish and cannot be used for human consumption or irrigation - and also because their resting areas are typically inaccessible, the birds are rarely disturbed, unlike other African wild birds.`flamingos
Between the mid-1860's and 1883, the ---------- population in North America was reduced from an estimated 13 million to a few hundred.`bison
Bird droppings are a chief export of Nauru, an island nation in the ----------`western pacific
Birds do not sing because they are happy. It is a(n) ----------`territorial behavior
Boredom can lead to madness in ----------. When caged by themselves and neglected for long periods of time, these intelligent, sociable birds can easily become mentally ill. Many inflict wounds upon themselves, develop strange tics, and rip out their own feathers. The birds need constant interaction, affection, and mental stimulation; some bird authorities have determined that some parrot breeds have the mental abilities of a 5-year-old human child. Should a neglected parrot go mad, there is little that can be done to restore it to normalcy. In England, there are "mental institutions" for such unfortunate creatures.`parrots
Boxers were named after their habit of playing. At the beginning of play with another dog, a Boxer will stand on his hind legs and bat at his opponent, appearing to "box" with his ----------`front paws
Bull giraffes forage higher in trees than cow giraffes which reduces food competition between the sexes. Long-legged giraffes walk with the limbs on one side of the body lifted at the same time. This gait is called a pace and allows a longer stride which saves ----------`steps and energy
By age 6 months, the voracious ---------- will have increased its 3-pound birth weight by 7,000 percent.`pig
Camel milk is the only milk that doesn't curdle when ----------`boiled
Camels were used as pack animals in ---------- and Arizona as late as 1870.`nevada
---------- can climb trees faster than they can run on the ground.`squirrels
---------- can clock an amazing 31 mph at full speed and cover about 3 times their body length per leap.`kittens
Canned herring were dubbed ---------- because the canning process was first developed in Sardinia, Italy.`sardines
---------- can swim for a 1/2 mile without resting, and they can tread water for 3 days straight.`rats
---------- can travel up to 40 miles per hour.`sharks
---------- can withstand water pressure of up to 850 pounds per square inch.`seals
Catnip can affect lions and tigers as well as house cats. It excites them because it contains a chemical that resembles an excretion of the dominant female's ----------`urine
Cats are the only domestic animals that walk directly on their ----------, not on their paws. This method of walking is called "digitigrade". When cats scratch furniture, it isn't an act of malice. They are actually tearing off the ragged edges of the sheaths of their talons to expose the new sharp ones beneath.`claws
Cats have amazing hearing ability. A cat's ear has ---------- muscles that control the outer ear (by comparison, human ears only have six muscles). These muscles rotate 180 degrees, so the cat can hear in all directions without moving its head.`thirty
Cats have more than one hundred vocal sounds, while dogs only have about ----------`ten
Cattle branding in the United States did not originate in the West. It began in ---------- in the mid-19th century, when farmers were required by law to mark all their pigs.`connecticut
Cattle branding was practiced 4,000 years ago. Old tomb paintings show ---------- branding their fat, spotted cattle.`egyptians
Certain birds of prey (the African serpent eagle and the American kestrel, for example) have ---------- acuity 2.4 to 2.6 times greater than humans. They can see a 1 mm long insect from a treetop 18 meters above ground.`visual
---------- chinchillas were brought from the Andes Mountains in South America in the 1930's. All chinchillas presently in North America are descended from these ---------- chinchillas.`eleven
Clams have a row of ---------- around their shells.`eyes
---------- communicate in sound waves below the frequency that humans can hear.`elephants
Communication within the prairie dog community is crucial to the creatures' survival. An appointed sentry, spotting a predator, will give a distinctive warning cry, which instantly sends all others grabbing up babies and scurrying to the safety of their burrows. An all-clear call later announces that danger is passed. Experts are fascinated by the prairie dogs' ----------`cooperative system
Cougars can kill animals ---------- times their size`eight
Cows have four stomachs. Often, when a calf is born, the farmer will make it swallow a magnet. This is to attract the various nails, staples, bits of wire, and so on, that the cow may ingest while grazing. This odd hunger is known as ----------`hardware disease
Cows provide 90 percent of the world's ----------`milk
Coyotes are extremely loyal to their mates. If one is caught in a trap, the other will bring small game for it to eat; it will soak itself in a river to allow its thirsty mate to chew on its damp fur for water. It has been documented that the free coyote will stay with its captive partner until ----------`death
Crabs and other crustaceans can escape danger by simply discarding an injured or trapped ----------`limb
---------- crumble leaves in their mouths to make a type of sponge to sop up water from the hollows in trees when they can't reach the water with their lips.`chimpanzees
Dead sponges can resist bacterial decay for more than five years when submerged in ----------`fresh water
Deer have no ----------`gall bladders
Depending on the geographic region, about 30 to 60 percent of all animals brought in to animal shelters in the United States are ----------`euthanized
Despite man's fear and hatred of the wolf, it has not ever been proved that a non-rabid wolf ever attacked a(n) ----------`human
Despite their finickiness, an average cat consumes about 127,750 calories a year, nearly 28 times their own weight in food and the same amount again in liquids. In case you were wondering, cats cannot survive on a(n) ----------`vegetarian diet
Developed in Egypt about 5,000 years ago, the greyhound breed was known before the ninth century in England, where it was bred by aristocrats to hunt such small game as hares. Today the dog is widely used in ----------`racing
Dogs that do not tolerate small children well are the St. Bernard, the Old English sheep dog, the Alaskan malamute, the bull terrier, and the toy ----------`poodle
Domesticated ---------- (farm-raised) cannot fly. Wild ---------- can fly for short distances at up to 55 miles per hour. Wild ---------- are also fast on the ground, running at speeds of up to 30 miles per hour.`turkeys
---------- do not breath automatically, as humans do, and so they do not sleep as humans do. If they become unconscious, they would sink to the bottom of the sea. Without the oxygen they need to take in periodically, they would die.`dolphins
---------- don't fly by flapping their wings up and down. The motion is more forward and backward, like a figure eight on its side.`birds
Ducks will lay eggs only in the ----------`early morning
Due to a retinal adaptation that reflects light back to the retina, the night vision of tigers is six times better than that of ----------`humans
grunting, whining, chattering, even barking and mewing at each other.`porcupines
Each day, 100 or more whales are killed by ----------`fishermen
---------- eagles hunt over a range of 100 square miles to feed their young.`golden
---------- eat only moving prey.`toads
---------- eels are not really eels but a kind of fish. Although they look like eels, their internal organs are arranged differently.`electric
___ eggs which are incubated below 85 f (29.5 c) hatch into females, while those incubated above 95 f (35 c) hatch into males`crocodile
---------- eggs which are incubated below 85  F (29.5  C) hatch into females, while those incubated above 95  F (35  C) hatch into males`crocodile
---------- eggs which are incubated below 85 F (29.5 C) hatch into females, while those incubated above 95 F (35 C) hatch into males`crocodile
---------- eggs which are incubated below 85 F (29.5 C) hatch into females, while those incubated above 95 F (35 C) hatch into males.`crocodile
Elephants are covered with ----------. Although it is not apparent from a distance, at close range, one can discern a thin coat of light ----------s covering practically every part of an elephant's body.`hair
Elephants, lions, and camels roamed ---------- 12,000 years ago.`alaska
Elephants perform greeting ceremonies when a member of the group returns after a long time away. The welcoming animals spin around, flap their ears, and ----------`trumpet
Elephant tusks grow throughout an elephant's life and can weigh more than 200 pounds. Among Asian elephants, only the males have tusks. Both sexes of ---------- elephants have tusks.`african
Ergonomic waterbeds are the latest must-have on the bovine circuit. The beds, listed at $175 each, are said to enhance cattle health by reducing ----------`joint damage
Every bird must eat at least half its own weight in food each day to survive. Young birds need even more. A young robin, for example, eats as much as 14 feet of ---------- a day.`earthworms
Every hour, nearly 12,500 puppies are born in the ----------`united states
Every ----------, there is a peak in Canada wildlife population, especially among the muskrats, red fox, skunks, mink, lynx, and rabbits. The population of grasshoppers of the world tends to rise and fall rhythmically in 9.2-year cycles.`9.6 years
Expressing recognition rather than love, Utah ---------- exchange "kisses." By the touching of incisor teeth, they quickly confirm the identity of group members.`prairie dogs
February 18, 1930 marks the first flight by a(n) ---------- in an airplane.`cow
February is the mating month for ----------`gray whales
---------- feel safest when they are crowded together, hundreds in a group.`flamingoes
Fish travel in schools, whales travel in pods or ----------`gams
Flamingos are not naturally pink. They get their color from their food, tiny green algae that turn pink during ----------`digestion
Flatfishes form a unique and widespread group that includes about 130 American species, common in both the Atlantic and ----------`pacific ocean
---------- for most snakes is accomplished with one lung only. The left lung is either greatly reduced in size or missing completely.`breathing
Frogs never drink. They absorb water from their surroundings by ----------`osmosis
From crocodile farms, Australia exports about 5,000 crocodile skins a year. Most go to Paris, where a crocodile purse can sell for more than ----------`$10,000
Garter snakes, though reptiles, do not ----------. They bear young, just as mammals do.`lay eggs
---------- gather in groups to sleep through the winter. Sometimes up to 1,000 of them will coil up together to keep warm.`rattlesnakes
Genuine ivory does not only come from elephants. It can come from the tusks of a boar or a(n) ----------`walrus
Gibbons live in family groups and communicate to others through high-pitched songs which can be heard for several miles. Songs are specific to each family and convey information such as location, temper, and social ----------`position
Goats generally need their ---------- trimmed once a month.`hoofs
Goldfish have four color recepectors in their ---------- compared to our three - the mantis shrimp has ten color receptors.`eyes
Goldfish lose their color if they are kept in a dim light or they are placed in a body of running water, such as a stream. They remain gold when kept in a pond or in a bowl with adequate ----------`illumination
Gophers are ----------`hermits
Gorillas and ---------- sleep about fourteen hours a day.`cats
Gorillas do not know how to ----------`swim
Gray ---------- migrate 12,000 miles each year, farther than any other mammal.`whales
Groundhogs are "fossorial" - they live most of their lives underground. They dig burrows or "dens" that have several entrances. Each is connected with the main tunnel and the nesting chamber where the animal hibernates for the winter. A groundhog's whiskers help it ----------`navigate underground
A group of unicorns is called a(n) ----------. A group of kangaroos is called a mob. A group of whales is called a pod. A group of geese is called a gaggle. A group of owls is called a parliament. A group of ravens is an unkindness. A group of crows is a murder. A group of bears is called a sleuth. Twelve or more cows is called a flink.`blessing
Guinea pigs were first domesticated by the ----------, who used them for food, in sacrifices, and as household pets.`incas
Hamadryas ----------, in ancient Egypt, were believed to be companions and oracles of the god Thoth. They were given the honor of being mummified when they died.`baboons
---------- has more homeless cats per square mile than any other city in the world.`rome
---------- have been trained to have recognition vocabularies of 100 to 200 words. They can distinguish among different grammatical patterns.`chimpanzees
---------- have no ability to taste sweet things.`cats
---------- have scent glands between their hind toes. The glands help them leave scent trails for the herd. Researchers say the odor smells cheesy.`reindeer
---------- have the best eyesight of any breed of dog.`greyhounds
---------- have three eyelids to protect themselves from blowing sand.`camels
Hedgehog quills are not barbed or poisonous. Hedgehogs do apply a foamy, foul-tasting saliva to their quills, which protects the animals from ----------`predators
Hens do not have to be impregnated to lay eggs. The ---------- is necessary only to fertilize the egg.`rooster
---------- herds post their own sentries. When danger threatens, the sentry raises its trunk and though it may be as far as a half-mile away, the rest of the herd is instantly alerted. how this communication takes place is not understood.`elephant
Hippopotamuses have killed more people in Africa than all the lions, elephants, and water buffalo combined, usually by ----------`trampling
Horned ---------- eat ants. They wait in areas where ants are working and when one passes by, they flick out their tongue, catch their prey, and swallow without chewing. Apparently their digestive tract is immune to bites and stings.`lizards
Horses shorter than 141/2 hands (58 inches) at the withers (top of the shoulders) are technically ponies. The ----------, around 43 inches tall, is called a pony, not a miniature. Miniatures start 9 inches shorter, and prices go up as size goes down.`shetland
Hummingbirds are the smallest birds - so tiny that one of their enemies is an insect, the ----------`praying mantis
Hummingbirds cannot glide or soar as other bird do. They are the only bird that can ----------`hover continuously
If frightened or threatened, a mother rabbit may abandon, ignore, or ----------`eat her young
If they are well treated, camels in captivity can live to the age of ----------`fifty
In 1874, the first animal purchased for the Lincoln Park Zoo in Chicago was a(n) ----------, bought for $10.`bear cub
In 1880, there were approximately 2 billion passenger pigeons in the United States. By 1914, the species was ----------`extinct
In Alaska, it is legal to shoot ----------. However, waking a sleeping bear for the purpose of taking a photograph is prohibited.`bears
In ancient Rome, auburn-haired puppies were sacrificed to ensure a plentiful ----------`corn crop
In England, the most commonly used guide dog for the blind is the Yellow ----------`labrador retriever
In Korea, the deer is a symbol of long life, and is often portrayed in the company of ----------`immortals
In Milwaukee during the 1900s, 12,500 horses in the city left an estimated 133 tons of ---------- and urine on the streets per year.`manure
In Pakistan, goats are often sacrificed to improve the performance of the ----------`stock market
In regions of India where the soil is red, elephants take on a permanent pink tinge because they regularly spray dust over their bodies to protect themselves against`insects
In Russia, dogs have been trained to sniff out ore deposits that contain ----------`iron sulfides
---------- instinctively know their own endurance and will refuse to move beyond it. If their masters try to drive them farther, they will lie down and refuse to budge.`camels
---------- is one American breed of hardy hogs having drooping ears - it was allegedly named after the horse owned by the hog's breeder.`duroc
It is estimated that a single toad may catch and eat as many as 10,000 insects in the course of a(n) ----------`summer
It is estimated that manatees live a maximum of 50 to 60 ----------`years
It is the female ---------- who does more than 90 percent of the hunting, while the male is afraid to risk his life, or simply prefers to rest.`lion
It may take longer than two days for a chick to break out of its ----------`shell
It seems to biologists that, unlike their humpback whale relatives whose underwater song evolves from year to year, killer whales retain individual ---------- unchanged over long periods, possibly even for life.`dialects
It takes a(n) ---------- approximately seven years to grow to be one pound`lobster
It takes about 50 hours for a snake to digest one ----------`frog
It takes an average of 345 squirts to yield a gallon of milk from a cow's ----------`udder
It would require an average of 18 ---------- to weigh in at 1 ounce.`hummingbirds
Javelinas are free-ranging, yet territorial animals that travel in small herds. One of the reasons they travel in numbers is so they can huddle to stay warm - they don't handle cold well and can`freeze to death quickly
Javelinas are very noisy animals among each other and squeal, snort, woof, and click their teeth to ----------`communicate
Just like people, mother ---------- often develop lifelong relationships with their offspring.`chimpanzees
Kangaroos usually give birth to one young annually. The young kangaroo, or joey, is born alive at a very immature stage, when it is only about 2 cm long and weighs less than a(n) ----------`gram
Kittens are born both blind and deaf, but the vibration of their mother's purring is a physical signal that the kittens can feel - it acts like a(n) ----------, signaling them to nurse.`homing device
Koalas and humans are the only animals with unique prints. Koala prints cannot be distinguished from human ----------`fingerprints
Komodo dragons eat deer and wild ----------`boar
----------, like grasshoppers - feel no pain. They have a decentralized nervous system with no cerebral cortex, which in humans is where a reaction to painful stimuli proceeds.`lobsters
the walk, the trot, and the gallop.`zebras
Llamas are reported to be inquisitive, friendly animals. A llama greeting is marked by softly blowing on each other. According to animal experts, a soft blow to a person is the llama's way of saying ----------`hello
Lone Pine Koala Sanctuary opened in 1927 in ----------, Australia, and it was the first and is still the largest koala sanctuary in the world. Tourists can cuddle one of 130 koalas, hand feed kangaroos and emus, and see a large variety of Australian native wildlife in the 50-acre sanctuary, such as wombats, Tasmanian devils, and dingoes. Koala cuddling has been banned in New South Wales since January 1997, but cuddling is still permitted in Queensland, and especially at Lone Pine Koala Sanctuary. In Queensland, koalas can only be cuddled for less than 30 minutes per day. They must also get every fourth day off. At Lone Pine, koalas are timed for "clock on" and "clock off" when they go to the koala cuddling area.`brisbane
Macaws are the largest and most colorful species of the ----------`parrot family
Male cockatoos can be taught to speak, but females can only chirp and ----------`sing
Male ---------- have antlers 7 feet across. The antlers often weigh 60 pounds.`moose
Male ---------- lose the hair on their heads in the same manner men do.`monkeys
Male ---------- may have more than 100 wives and sometimes go three months without eating.`sea lion
Many corals receive nourishment from algae which grow inside their ----------`tissue
Many seabirds that swallow fishes too large for immediate digestion go about with the esophagus filled. Apparently without discomfort, the tail of the fish sticks out of the ----------`bird's mouth
Many sharks lay soft-shelled eggs but hammerheads give birth to live young that look like miniature versions of their parents. Young hammerheads are often born ----------, with the tip of their hammerhead folded backward to make them more streamlined for birth.`headfirst
Marie Antoinette's dog was a spaniel named ----------`thisbe
Marine iguanas, saltwater crocodiles, sea snakes, and sea turtles are the only surviving seawater-adapted ----------`reptiles
25,000 miles in all.`birds
Mice, whales, elephants, giraffes, and humans all have seven neck ----------`vertebra
Migrating geese fly in a V-formation to save energy. A goose's wings churn the air and leave an air current behind. In the flying wedge, each bird is in position to get a lift from the current left by the bird ahead. It is easier going for all, except the leader. During a migration, geese are apt to take turns in the ----------`lead position
Milk delivered to the store today was in the cow ----------`two days ago
Milk snakes lay about 13 eggs - in piles of animal ----------`manure
Minnows have teeth in their ----------`throat
Monkeys will not eat red meat or ----------`butter
More ---------- are raised in California than in any other state in the United States.`turkeys
More people are killed in Africa by crocodiles than by ----------`lions
More species of ---------- live in a single tributary of the Amazon River than in all the rivers in North America combined.`fish
More than one million stray dogs and over 500,000 stray cats live in the ----------`new york city
Most cows give more milk when they ----------`listen to music
Most ---------- lived to be more than a hundred years old.`dinosaurs
Most tropical marine fish could survive in a tank filled with ----------`human blood
Most varieties of ---------- can go an entire year without eating a single morsel of food.`snake
Mother-of-pearl is not always ----------. It can be pink, blue, purple, gray, or even green. Nor is it produced only by the pearl oyster. The abalone and the pearl mussel both have shells that are lined with fine-quality mother-of-pearl.`white
Mother prairie dogs will nurse their young only while ---------- in the safety of the burrow. If an infant tries to suckle above ground, the mother will slap it.`underground
Mountain ---------- grow luxurious winter coats - more than three inches of cashmere-quality wool, overlaid with long hollow hairs. The hardy animals can endure winter temperatures as low as minus 50 degrees F, and powerful winds up to 100 miles per hour.`goats
Mussels can thrive in ---------- because of an inborn ability to purify bacteria, fungi, and viruses.`polluted water
Native peoples of South America catch ---------- and use their razor-sharp teeth to make tools and weapons.`piranha
---------- need about 2 tablespoonfuls of blood each day. The creature is able to extract its dinner in approximately 20 minutes.`vampire bats
---------- never walk or trot, but always hop or leap.`rabbits
Ninety percent of all species that have become extinct have been ----------`birds
Octopi and squid have ---------- hearts. Their main systemic heart pumps blood throughout the circulatory system, and two branchial hearts provide some additional push at each of the paired gills.`three
Off the coast of southern California, around 200 ---------- still roam in Catalina Island's hinterlands, descendants of a few brought there in the 1920s for a movie and left there.`bison
---------- of South and Central America and the Caribbean lay their eggs in February and March.`iguanas
Of the 250-plus known species of shark in the world, only about 18 are known to be ----------`dangerous to man
Oilbirds have a(n) ---------- sense shared among known birds only in Southeast Asia's swiftlets (although very common among bats). The oilbird is a cave dweller, and it bounces its echoing clicks from rock walls to help navigate in the dark vaults where they nest by the hundreds.`sonar
One in ten Dalmatians is born ----------, and the breed lacks the ability to process urine completely, so they need a special diet low in flesh protein.`deaf
One Laysan ----------, tracked by biologists at Wake Forest University, flew more than 24,843 miles in flights across the North Pacific to find food for its chick in just 90 days - a flight distance equivalent to circling the globe.`albatross
One peculiar behavior of dachshunds is that they often roll around in odiferous things when they encounter them. This odd habit has been attributed to the dog's hunting instinct. Doing this is the dachshund's attempt to "lose its scent" so that its potential prey cannot ----------`smell it
One way birds learn is by trial and error. Scientists have discovered that many of their learned motor patterns are linked to appetite. For instance, young doves must learn to drink water. The pecking of domestic chicks improves about 30 hours after hatching. They snatch up a grain with increased efficiency. Simple trial-and-error learning is also believed to be very important in birds' ----------`nest-building
Only tom turkeys ----------. Hen turkeys make a clicking noise.`gobble
On the Baja coast, osprey couples return to the same nests year after year. These birds rebuild their old nest, carefully repairing any damage caused by winds, rain, and age. After years of rebuilding, some osprey nests can reach heights of ----------`four feet
Ostriches are such fast runners, they can outrun a horse. Male ostriches can ---------`roar like a lion
Ostriches live about 75 years and can reproduce for ----------`fifty years
Out of the 650 known species of leeches, Hirudo medicinalis is the most common used by ----------`doctors
Pandas spend about 12 hours a day eating ----------`bamboo
Parrots, most famous of all talking birds, rarely acquire a vocabulary of more than twenty words. However, Tymhoney Greys and African Greys have been known to carry vocabularies in excess of ----------`one hundred words
Philip Gilbert Hamerton, English art writer and landscape painter, noted, "If animals could speak, the dog would be a blundering, outspoken, honest fellow - but the cat would have the rare grace of never saying a(n) ----------`word too much
Pigeons and hummingbirds have tiny magnetic particles in their heads that respond to the Earth's magnetic fields and are used for ----------`navigation
Pigs are exceedingly loud creatures. A University of Illinois study measured average pig squeals that ranged from 100 to 115 decibels. The supersonic Concorde jet, by comparison, was originally banned from New York when its engines exceeded 112 decibels at ----------`takeoff
Pigs, walruses, and light-colored horses can be ----------`sunburned
Pink elephants? In regions of India where the soil is red, elephants take on a permanent pink tinge because they regularly spray dust over their bodies to protect themselves against ----------`insects
---------- played a role in aerial warfare during World War I. Because of their acute hearing, parrots were kept on the Eiffel Tower to warn of approaching aircraft long before the planes were heard or seen by human spotters.`birds
Prior to migration a(n) ---------- will consume the equivalent of up to 25 percent of its body weight per day, accumulating large amounts of fat. During the migration, geese may cover up to 600 miles per day. At the end of the migration, they often weigh less than before they started fattening up in preparation.`goose
Racehorses have been known to wear out ---------- in one race.`new shoes
Reportedly, ---------- mate for life.`beavers
Researchers don't know why killer whales like to rub their sensitive stomachs on the bottom of shallow beaches, but they think it may be a form of ----------`grooming
---------- sea otters spend almost all of their time in the water. Alaska sea otters often sleep, groom, and nurse on land.`california
Several poison-dart frog species are bred at the National Aquarium in Baltimore. There, researchers gauge the toxicity of poisonous species by taste. No danger is posed, because frogs caught in the wild gradually become less poisonous, and captive offspring are nontoxic. The change may be due to diet. The frog's natural menu - mostly tropical ants and springtails - cannot be duplicated in a(n) ----------`terrarium
Sharks and rays are the only animals known to man that cannot succumb to cancer. Scientists believe this is related to the fact that they have no bone - only ----------`cartilage
Sharks can be dangerous even before they are born. Scientist Stewart Springer was bitten by a sand tiger shark embryo while he was examining its ----------`pregnant mother
"He leadeth me beside the ----------`still waters
---------- silk is an extremely strong material and its on-weight basis has been proven to be stronger than steel. Experts suggest that a pencil-thick strand of silk could stop a Boeing 747 in flight.`spider
Since white tigers have pigmented stripes and blue eyes, they are not ----------`albinos
Sir Walter Raleigh's black greyhound was named ----------`hamlet
Snails have ----------. They are arranged in rows along the snail's tongue and are used like a file to saw or slice through the snail's foot.`teeth
Some more names for groups of animals... a bale of turtles, a clowder of cats, a charm of goldfinches, a gam of whales, a knot of toads, a(n) ---------- of tigers.`streak
Some sloths, opossum, and armadillos spend up to 80 percent of their lives sleeping or ----------`dozing
Some species of earthworms in ---------- can measure more than ten feet in length.`australia
Some species of freshwater eels migrate to the Sargasso Sea in the Atlantic Ocean to mate. After laying up to 20 million eggs, the female eel dies. The baby eels hatched from the eggs then make their way back to ----------`fresh water
Some species of rain forest birds migrate every summer from South America to Canada to ----------`breed
So that it can pull its lithe body into a tight, prickly little ball for defense, the hedgehog has a large muscle running along its ----------`stomach
Strange creatures, jellyfish are comprised mostly of water - more than 95 percent - and have no brain, heart, or bones, and no actual ----------`eyes
Sue, the world's largest, most complete, and best preserved ----------, made her grand debut to the public on May 17, 2000 at the Field Museum in Chicago, Illinois.`tyrannosaurus rex
Surviving all dangers, a wild ---------- may live up to 20 years.`cobra
---------- swim in circles while they sleep with the eye on the outside of the circle open to keep watch for predators. After a certain amount of time, they reverse and swim in the opposite direction with the opposite eye open.`dolphins
---------- that are seen wandering around in the wild do not make good pets. These are sexually mature males at the end of their life cycle - they will die within a few weeks or months.`tarantulas
The Adlie ---------- bears the name of French explorer Dumont d'Urville's beloved wife.`penguin
The AdTlie ---------- bears the name of French explorer Dumont d'Urville's beloved wife`penguin
The Alaskan ---------- is the largest deer of the New World. It attains a height at the withers in excess of 7 feet and, when fully grown, weighs up to 1,800 pounds.`moose
The albatross drinks sea water. It has a special desalinization apparatus that strains out and excretes all excess ----------`salt
The American opossum, a marsupial, bears its young just 12 to 13 days after conception. The Asiatic elephant takes 608 days to give birth, or just over ----------`20 months
The American ---------- weighs approximately one pound when fully grown.`crow
The American ----------, with its eyes placed toward the top of its head, can see backward and upward, and forward and upward, with binocular vision and, laterally, almost 180 degrees with each eye.`woodcock
The anaconda, one of the world's largest snakes, gives birth to its young instead of ----------`laying eggs
The ancient nautilus is considered the most intelligent of the invertebrates; it is said to have been as intelligent as a(n) ----------`young cat
The ---------- - a relative of the mole - is the smallest mammal in North America. It weighs 1/14 ounce - less than a dime.`pigmy shrew
The armor of the ---------- is not as tough as it appears. It is very pliable, much like a human fingernail.`armadillo
The ----------, a small lizard generally measuring 6 or 7 inches, has a tongue several inches longer than its body. With a thrust of this remarkable appendage, it can catch insects some 10 inches away.`chameleon
The average adult male ----------, the world's largest living bird, weighs up to 345 pounds.`ostrich
The average adult ---------- pig weighs two pounds.`guinea
The average adult ---------- weighs 21 pounds.`raccoon
The average capacity of a pelican's ---------- is 12 quarts.`pouch
The average cod deposits between 4 and 6 million eggs at a single ----------`spawning
The average cow produces ---------- glasses of milk each day.`forty
The average cow produces ---------- glasses of milk each day.`fourty
The average giraffe's ---------- is two or three times that of a healthy man.`blood pressure
The average minimal speed of birds in order to remain aloft in flight is reported to be about 161/2 feet per second, or about ---------- miles per hour.`eleven
The average ---------- moves at a rate of approximately 0.000362005 miles per hour.`snail
The average porcupine has more than 30,000 quills. Porcupines are excellent swimmers because their quills are hollow and serve as pontoons to keep them ----------`afloat
The average ---------- weighs 14 pounds.`fox
The Bactrian camel is the only land mammal on Earth that can survive on ----------`salt water
The basenji is a mid-sized dog with a silky copper coat. Although they are considered a barkless dog, they are known to ---------- when they are happy.`yodel
The bat is the only mammal that can ----------`fly
The ---------- bird can fly at a speed of 260 miles per hour.`frigate
The bite of a leech is painless due to its own ----------`anaesthetic
The black bear is not always black. It can be brown, cinnamon, ----------, and sometimes a bluish color.`yellow
The blow of a whale has a strong, foul odor. It apparently smells like a combination of spoiled fish and old oil. Because whales have such terrible breath, sailors believed at one time that a whiff of it could cause ----------`brain disorders
The blubber of a male ---------- is considered superior to that of the sperm whale for lubricating machinery.`elephant seal
The bluefin ---------- swims with its mouth partly open, relying on ramjet ventilation, unlike slower fish, which force water through their gills to remove oxygen and release carbon dioxide. Since seawater contains only about 2.5 percent as much oxygen it needs from the volume of water flowing through its mouth, the bluefin has proportionately one of the largest gill areas of any fish.`tuna
The blue whale is maintained by its blubber and can go up to half a year without ----------`eating
The blue whale weighs as much as thirty elephants, and is as long as three ----------`greyhound buses
The bottle-nosed ---------- can dive to a depth of 3,000 feet in two minutes.`whale
The breed of the Thoroughbred horse is only about 300 years old, although horse racing has been popular in England since Roman times, and can be traced back to Central Asia among ----------`prehistoric nomads
The brilliant colors in a hummingbird's ---------- are created by tiny platelets that resemble a pancake filled with air bubbles. They are called "interference colors," and are much like the shimmering colors seen in a soap bubble or in a drop of oil.`feather
The Cairn terrier is great at catching ----------`rats
The calories burned daily by the sled dogs running in Alaska's annual Iditarod race average 10,000. The 1,149-mile race commemorates the 1925 "Race for Life" when 20 volunteer mushers relayed medicine from Anchorage to Nome to battle a children's ----------`diphtheria epidemic
The ---------- can travel up to 45 miles per hour, whereas the rabbit can achieve an average speed of just 35 miles per hour.`hare
The ---------- can travel up to 9 miles per hour.`chicken
The cat was the symbol of liberty in ancient ----------`rome
The chameleon has a tongue that is 1.5 times the length of its ----------`body
The Chinese, during the reign of Kublai Khan, used lions on hunting expeditions. They trained the big cats to pursue and drag down massive animals - from wild bulls to bears - and to stay with the kill until the ----------`hunter arrived
The color of the blood of an ---------- is bluish-green.`octopus
The common carp lives up to 25 years in the wild, and up to 40 years in captivity. The durable fish can survive in waters up to 90 degrees F, and can even withstand ---------- for short periods.`freezing
The conception and birth of the armadillo are odd events. Although mating usually occurs in July, the embryos of the armadillo remain in a dormant state until November. Later in March, four young are born. Armadillos are the only mammals in which multiple young form from a single egg with any regularity. All four of the young, always of the same sex, are identical quadruplets and developed from the same egg. They even shared a single ---------- while in the womb.`placenta
The ---------- continually grows new sets of teeth to replace old teeth. It also cannot move its tongue. The tongue is rooted to the base of its mouth.`crocodile
The crayfish isn't a fish at all - it is related to the ----------`lobster
The crocodile is a cannibal; it will occasionally eat other ----------`crocodiles
The crocodile is surprisingly fast on land. If pursued by a crocodile, a person should run in a zigzag motion, for the crocodile has little or no ability to make sudden changes of ----------`direction
The Dalmatian dog is named for the Dalmatian Coast of ----------, where it is believed to have been originally bred.`croatia
The digestive juices of crocodiles contain so much ---------- that they have dissolved iron spearheads and 6-inch steel hooks that the crocodiles have swallowed.`hydrochloric acid
The ---------- does not chew its food, but swallows it whole. It carries several pounds of small stones in its stomach to aid in grinding up and digesting its nourishment.`crocodile
The dog and the turkey were the only two domesticated animals in ancient ----------`mexico
The duckbill platypus of Australia can store up to 600 worms in its large cheek ----------`pouches
The ---------- eagle of Africa hunts over a territory of 250 square miles a day.`bateleur
The ---------- eagle, swooping at better than 100 miles per hour, can brake to a halt in 20 feet.`african
The ears of the Asiatic ---------- are larger than those of other bear species.`black bears
The ---------- eats nothing but eucalyptus leaves.`koala
The Egyptian ----------, a white bird about the size of a raven, throws stones with its beak to open ostrich eggs to eat. This bird is one of the very few animals that, like man, manipulates objects as tools.`vulture
The electric eel has thousands of electric cells running up and down its tail. Vital body organs, such as the heart, are packed into a small space behind the head. They use their electric sense to "see". Their electric sensors act like ----------. They send out weak impulses which bounce off objects.`radar
The electric eel is the most shocking animal on Earth - no other animal packs such a big charge. If attacking a large prey, a 9-foot-long eel can discharge about ----------. One zap could stun a human. The larger the eel, the bigger the charge.`800 volts
The electric eel lives in the Amazon River and its tributaries in South America. The rivers churn up a lot of mud and the eels cannot see well in them. Two less powerful electric fish are the electric catfish and ray. Electric rays live in warm ocean water, and they can give off a charge of sufficient force to stun a human. The biggest electric ray, the Atlantic torpedo ray, can weigh ---------- pounds.`two hundred
The electric eel's shocking power is so great that it can overtake its victims while ----------`15 feet away
The electric organs in an electric eel make up four-fifths of its ----------`body
The famous cow used as the corporate symbol on all Elmer's products is actually named ----------, and she is the spouse of Elmer, the steer who the company is named after.`elsie
The fastest animal on four legs is the ----------`cheetah
The fastest dog, the ----------, can reach speeds of up to 45 miles per hour. The breed was known to exist in ancient Egypt more than 5,000 years ago.`greyhound
The fastest of all fish in the sea is the ----------, streaming forward at speeds near 68 miles per hour.`swordfish
The favorite horses of both Alexander the Great (Bucephalos) and Julius Caesar both had atavistic mutations - extra toes. Horses normally have only one toe per foot, but are descended from horses with three or four toes on ----------`each limb
The female American Oyster lays an average of 500 million eggs per year. Usually only one oyster out of the bunch reaches ----------`maturity
The female condor lays a single egg once every`two years
The female ---------- inseminates herself. At mating time, the male deposits a conical mass of jellylike substance containing the sperm. The female draws the jelly into herself, and in so doing, fertilizes her eggs.`salamander
The female king crab incubates as many as 400,000 young for 11 months in a brood pouch under her ----------`abdomen
The female knot-tying weaverbird will refuse to mate with a male who has built a shoddy nest. If spurned, the male must take the nest apart and completely rebuild it in order to win the ---------- of the female.`affections
The female pigeon cannot lay eggs if she is alone. In order for her ovaries to function, she must be able to see another pigeon. If no other pigeon is available, her own ---------- in a mirror will suffice.`reflection
The first ---------- dragons to breed in the western world are at the National Zoo at the Smithsonian Institute in Washington, D.C.`komodo
The first medical use of leeches dates back to approximately 2,500 years ago. The leech's saliva contains a property that acts as an anticoagulant for ----------`human blood
The flamingoes of East Africa have few natural enemies. In general, the only predators an adult flamingo need fear are the fish eagle and the ----------`marabou stork
The flounder swims ----------`sideways
The flying ---------- of Java and Malaysia is able to flatten itself out like a ribbon and sail like a glider from tree to tree.`snake
The fur of the vicuna, a small member of the camel family which live in the Andes mountains of Peru, is so fine that each hair is less than two-thousandths of an inch. The animal was considered sacred by the Incas, and only royalty could wear its ----------`fleece
The giant African ---------- grows to a foot long and reaches weights greater than a pound.`snail
The giant ---------- is the largest creature without a backbone. It weighs up to 2.5 tons and grows up to 55 feet long. Each eye is a foot or more in diameter.`squid
The giraffe's ---------- is huge; it weighs 25 pounds, is 2 feet long, and has walls up to 3 inches thick.`heart
The great horned owl can turn its head ----------`270 degrees
The grebe, an aquatic bird, has an effective means of escaping danger while protecting its young. At the first sign of danger, it will sink into the water until its back is level with the surface. This allows its offspring to swim over and quickly climb onto its back. The parent grebe then rises up to its swimming position and ferries the chicks across the water to ----------`safety
The grizzly bear is capable of running as fast as the average ----------`horse
The ---------- has green bones.`garfish
The ---------- has only two toes, unlike most birds, which have three or four.`ostrich
The hides of mature female blue ---------- are more than twice as thick as those of males, probably as a protection against courtship bites.`sharks
The hippopotamus gives birth ---------- and nurses its young in the river as well, although the young hippos must come up periodically for air.`underwater
The hippopotamus has skin an inch-and-a-half thick, so solid that most ---------- cannot penetrate it.`bullets
The hippopotamus has the world's shortest ----------`sperm
The hippopotamus is, next to the elephants, the heaviest of all land mammals. It may weigh as much as 8,000 pounds. It is also a close relative of the ----------`pig
The Hirudo leech has three jaws with 100 teeth on each jaw - making 300 teeth in all. The ---------- leech uses a different method of sucking blood. They insert a long proboscis into the victim as opposed to biting.`amazon
The Hirudo leech lays its babies within a cocoon; the Amazon leech carries its babies on its ---------- - sometimes as many as 300.`stomach
The horned lizard of the American southwest may squirt a thin stream of ---------- from the corners of its eyes when frightened.`blood
The hummingbird is the only bird that can ----------`fly backwards
The hummingbird's tiny ----------, 4.2% of its body weight, is proportionately the largest in the bird kingdom.`brain
The hum of a hummingbird comes from the super-fast beat of the wings. The smallest ones beat their wings the fastest - up to 80 times per second. Even the slower beat of bigger hummingbirds (20 times per second) is so fast you can only see a(n) ----------`blur
The individual hair of a chinchilla is so fine that ----------of them equal the thickness of a single human hair.`five hundred
The ---------- is a little-known burrowing South American animal that is related to the armadillo, but is smaller in size. The ending of the animal's name is derived from the Spanish ciego, meaning "blind."`pichiciego
The ---------- is a member of the rodent family. The typical adult ---------- can weigh approximately 8 to 14 pounds and average about 22 inches in length. Groundhogs are also known as "woodchucks," "whistle pigs," and "marmots."`groundhog
The ---------- is one of the few land animals that does not need water to supplement its food.`koala
The ---------- is the first bird mentioned in the Bible. It was sent out by Noah to see if the waters had abated.`raven
The ---------- is the only bird that can swim, but not fly. It is also the only bird that walks upright.`penguin
The jackrabbit is not a rabbit; it is a(n) ----------`hare
The Jardine River in Australia's Cape York Peninsula is home to Crocodylus porosus, the saltwater or estuarine crocodile. It is the largest and perhaps most dangerous of all ---------- species of crocodilians.`twenty three
The kakapo is a nocturnal burrowing parrot of ---------- that has a green body with brown and yellow markings. Its name is from Maori and means "night parrot."`new zealand
The king crab walks ----------`diagonally
The kinkajou's tail is twice as long as its body. Every night, it wraps itself up in its tail and uses it as a(n) ----------`pillow
The largest bird egg in the world today is that of the ostrich. Ostrich eggs are from 6 to 8 inches long. Because of their size and the thickness of their shells, they take 40 minutes to ----------`hard-boil
The largest Great White Shark ever caught measured 37 feet and weighed 24,000 pounds. It was found in a herring weir in New Brunswick in 1930. The harmless Whale Shark, holds the title of largest fish, with the record being a 59-footer captured in Thailand in ----------`1919
The largest jellyfish in the world has a bell that can reach 8 feet across and tentacles that extend over half the length of a(n) ----------`football field
The largest known egg ever laid by a creature was that of the extinct ---------- of Madagascar. The egg was 9.5 inches long. It had a volume of 2.35 gallons.`aepyornis
The largest order of mammals, with about 1,700 species, is ----------. Bats are second with about  950 species.`rodents
The largest species of seahorse measures`eight inches
The leech has 32 brains - 31 more than a(n) ----------`human
The leech will gorge itself up to ---------- its body weight and then just fall off its victim.`five times
The life expectancy of the average mockingbird is`ten years
The male house ---------- builds several nests as part of his courtship ritual. Once the nests are completed, his potential bride looks them all over, then selects one as her preferred choice for the laying of her eggs.`wren
The male seahorse, not the female, carries the ---------- of the species. The female fills the male's brooch pouch with eggs, which remain in the swollen sac for a gestation period of eight to ten days.`embryo
The male ---------- sheds its antlers every winter and grows a new set the following year.`moose
The male ---------- will mate for life, and if the female dies, he remains single for the rest of his life. However, if the male dies, the female will hook up with a new mate.`fox
The maximum life span of ---------- has been documented to be over 200 years in exceptional cases. The average life span of the large colorful fish, however, is 25 to 35 years.`koi
The Mojave ground ----------, found mainly in the American West, hibernates for two-thirds of every year.`squirrel
The Mola Mola, or Ocean Sunfish, lays up to ---------- eggs at one time.`5,000,000
The more that is learned about the ecological benefits of ----------, the more home gardeners are going out of their way to entice these amazing winged mammals into their neighborhoods. ---------- are voracious insect eaters, devouring as many as 600 bugs per hour for 4 to 6 hours a night. They can eat from one-half to three-quarters their weight per evening. ---------- are also important plant pollinators, particularly in the southwestern U.S.`bats
The most carnivorous of all bears is the ----------. Its diet consists almost entirely of seals and fish.`polar bear
The most venomous of all snakes, known as the Inland Taipan, has enough venom in one bite to kill more than 200,000 ----------`mice
The mouse is the most common mammal in the ----------`united states
The mudskipper is a fish that can actually ----------`walk on land
The ----------, national bird of New Zealand, can't fly. It lives in a hole in the ground, is almost blind, and lays only one egg each year. Despite this, it has survived for more than 70 million years.`kiwi
The New Guinea Singing Dog's most unique characteristic is its dramatic ability to vary the pitch of its howl. They do not bark repetitively but have a complex vocal behavior, including yelps, whines, and single-note ----------`howls
The Nile crocodile averages about 45 years in the wild, and may live up to 80 years in ----------`captivity
The normal body temperature of the ---------- horse is 101 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius).`clydesdale
The now-extinct ancestor of the horse, ----------, had a short neck, a pug muzzle, and stood no higher than a medium-sized dog.`eohippus
The ---------- of a really famished camel may flop over and hang down the side of the body as the fat is used up.`hump
The ----------, often called "possum," dates back over 45 million years.`opossum
The once popular dog name ---------- is from Latin and means "fidelity."`fido
The only country in the world that has a Bill of Rights for Cows is ----------`india
The only ---------- to ever appear in a Shakespearean play was Crab in "The Two Gentlemen of Verona."`dog
The optimum depth of water in a birdbath, says the Audubon Society of America, is two and a half inches. Less water makes it difficult for birds to take a bath; more makes them ----------`afraid
The owl is the only bird to drop its upper eyelid to wink. All other birds raise their lower ----------`eyelids
The owl parrot can't fly, and builds its nest under tree ----------`roots
The oyster is usually ----------. It begins life as a male, then becomes a female, then changes back to being a male, then back to being female. It may go back and forth many times.`ambisexual
The Ozark blind salamander begins life with eyes and plumelike gills. As the animal matures, its eyelids fuse together and the gills ----------`disappear
The part of the foot of a horse between the fetlock and the hoof is the ----------`pastern
The penculine ---------- of Africa builds its home in such a sturdy manner that Masai tribesman use their nests for purses and carrying cases.`titmouse
The poison-arrow frog has enough poison to kill about ----------`2,200 people
The process of a snake shedding its skin or a crustacean casting off its outer shell is called ----------`ecdysis
The pronghorn ---------- can run up to 61 miles per hour.`antelope
The pronghorn ---------- is the fastest mammal to be found in North America, and second only to the cheetah as the fastest mammal on the planet.`antelope
The pupil of an octopus's eye is ----------`rectangular
The raccoon derives its name from the Indian word meaning "he who scratches with his ----------`hands
There are 1,600 known species of ---------- in the world.`starfishes
There are 328 species of ----------`parrots
There are 40,000 muscles and ---------- in an elephant's trunk. This makes it very strong and flexible, allowing an elephant to pluck a delicate flower or lift a huge log. The trunk is used for touching, grasping, sucking, spraying, smelling, and striking.`tendons
There are 690 known species of ----------`bats
There are about 130 species of ----------`owl
There are about 40 different ---------- in a birds wing.`muscles
There are about 5,000 species of ---------- known. Only about half of them build reefs.`coral
There are about 500 different kinds of cone snails around the world. All have a sharp, modified tooth that stabs prey with venom like a harpoon. Most cone snails hunt worms and other snails, but some eat fish. These are the ones most dangerous to people. The nerve toxin that stops a fish is powerful enough to also kill a(n) ----------`human
There are close to 4,000 known species of frogs, including ----------`toads
There are fewer than 1,000 Bactrian camels left in the wild. They have survived in a land with no water in an area used for nuclear testing. Their numbers, however, are falling dramatically as humans encroach farther and farther into China's ----------`gobi Desert
There are ---------- in Poland. They live mainly in the area of the Bialowieza Forest and are known as "zubra." The well-known Polish vodka Zubrowka, which means "buffalo brand," takes its name from these animals.`buffalos
There are more than 100 million ---------- in the united states. americans spend more than 5.4 billion dollars on their pets each year.`dogs and cats
There are more than 450 species of ---------- throughout the world.`finches
There are no penguins at the ----------. In fact, there are no penguins anywhere in the Northern Hemisphere (outside of zoos). All 17 varieties of the bird are found below the equator, primarily in the Antarctica.`north pole
There are no wild deer of any kind in Australia, and the small red deer is the only one found in ----------`africa
rose, strawberry, single, cushion, buttercup, pea, and V-shaped.`chickens
There are some 50 different species of ----------, and all of them are venomous. They thrive in abundance along the coast from the Persian Gulf to Japan and around Australia and Melanesia. Their venom is ten times as virulent as that of the cobra. Humans bitten by them have died within two-and-a-half hours.`sea snakes
There are ---------- that nest in trees. These creatures may spend their whole life without ever touching the ground.`mice
The rear portion of the head of a horse is called the ----------`poll
There is approximately one ---------- for every human being in the world.`chicken
There is a substantial wild population of golden hamsters living in Eastern Europe and the Middle East. Scientists speculate that all the domesticated golden hamsters in the world descended from a single female with twelve babies, which were dug from a burrow in Syria back in ----------`1930
There is just one known species of ---------- in the world - it is in the order of Struthioniformes.`ostrich
There is no mention of cats or rats in the ----------`bible
There is no single cat called the ----------. The name is commonly applied to the leopard, but it is also used to refer to the puma and the jaguar. A black ---------- is really a black leopard.`panther
There once were more sea lions on Earth than ----------`people
The ring-tailed ----------, a primate found only in Madagascar, meows like a cat.`lemur
The ruby-throated hummingbird beats its wings at the incredibly rapid speed of 50 to 70 times a second. If a 170-pound man expended energy at the rate of the hummingbird, he would have to eat 285 pounds of hamburger or twice his weight in potatoes each day in order to maintain his weight. He would have to evaporate 100 pounds of perspiration per hour to keep his skin temperature below the ----------`boiling point of water
The Rufous is the only species of hummingbird to nest in Alaska. They migrate 2,000 miles to Mexico each winter, and then back to Alaska in the ----------`spring
The sea cucumber, a purplish-brown creature covered with ----------, has a unique defense strategy. When attacked, it throws out sticky threads from its mouth, which entangles its enemy. The sea cucumber can then quickly escape.`warts
The sea lion can swim 6,000 miles, stopping only to ----------`sleep
The sea lion is susceptible to sunburn, and if put on board a ship, will get as seasick as a(n) ----------`man
The sea otter's dark fur is the finest and densest of any animal fur. On an adult animal, there are approximately 650,000 hairs per square inch. A sea otter relies on its fur to keep it warm - it doesn't have blubber as other marine mammals do. Natural oils in a sea otter's fur repel ----------`water
The seeing-eye dog, or any dog trained to guide the blind, cannot tell a red light from a green one. When it lead its master across the street, it watches the traffic flow to tell when it is ----------`safe to cross
The shoebill ----------, native to Africa, is often compared to a statue. The bird will stand perfectly still for long periods waiting for fish to come to surface in the water.`stork
The shrew is known to eat up to its own weight about every three hours. Deprived of nutrition for a day, it may ----------`starve to death
The skin of baby ---------- is so transparent that one can actually see the milk flowing into them as they nurse.`mice
The smallest bird in the world is the Cuban bee ----------. It is less than 2 inches long from tip of beak to tip of tail. It weighs 6/100ths of an ounce.`hummingbird
The smallest frog is the Gold frog (Psyllophryne Didactyla) of ----------. It grows to only 9.8 mm (3/8 inch).`brazil
The smallest of American owls, the ----------, often nests in the Gila woodpecker's cactus hole after the woodpecker leaves. The owl measures barely 6 inches tall. It specializes in catching scorpions, seizing each by the tail and nipping off its stinger. It then swallows the scorpion's body, pincers and all.`elf owl
The smell of a(n) ---------- can be detected by a human a mile away.`skunk
The snail mates only once in its entire life. When it does mate, however, it may take as long as ---------- to consummate the act.`12 hours
The ---------- snake found in the state of Arizona is not poisonous, but when frightened, it may hiss loudly and vibrate its tail like a rattlesnake.`gopher
The sound a(n) ---------- makes is called "nuzzing".`camel
The spines on a newborn ---------- start to appear within 24 hours.`hedgehog
The spiny cheek, starsnout poacher, and monkeyface prickleback are all names of ----------`fish
The star-nosed mole, with 22 pink ---------- on its snout, is said to have the most delicate sense of touch in the animal world.`tentacles
The stegosaurus had a brain that weighed only 2 ounces and was no bigger than a(n) ----------`walnut
The striped ---------- can fire its musk stream accurately for up to 12 feet, and even farther with a cooperative downwind.`skunk
The tailorbird of Africa makes its nest by sewing together two broad leaves. It uses fiber as the thread and its bill as the ----------`needle
The tarantula spends most of its life within its burrow, which is an 18-inch vertical hole with an inch-wide opening. When male tarantulas are between the ages of 5 to 7 years, they leave the burrow in search of a female, usually in the early fall. This migration actually signals the end of their life cycle. The males mate with as many females as they can, and then they die around mid-----------`november
The three-toed ---------- of tropical America can swim easily, but it can only drag itself across bare ground.`sloth
The two ---------- of a dolphin's brain work independently. For 8 hours, the entire brain is awake. The left side then sleeps for 8 hours. When it wakes up, the right side sleeps for 8 hours. Thus, the dolphin gets 8 hours of sleep without ever having to stop physically.`hemispheres
The underwater mating song of the ---------- is so loud that sometimes it can be heard by humans on the shore.`toadfish
The venom of the king cobra is so deadly that one gram of it can kill ----------. Just to handle the substance can put one in a coma.`150 people
The Virginia opossum is the only marsupial (pouched mammal) indigenous to North America. They will play dead when threatened, and contrary to folklore, do not sleep hanging by their tails. They have a litter size of up to 22, but only a maximum of 13 offspring live. Their babies stay in the pouch for the first ----------`60 days
the microscopic ----------, found throughout the sea.`plankton
The ---------- whale is often referred to as the "sea canary" because of the birdlike chirping sounds it makes.`beluga
The ---------- whale is the mammal with the heaviest brain - about six times heavier than a human's.`sperm
The white elephant is the sacred animal of ----------`thailand
The woolly ----------, extinct since the Ice Age, had tusks almost 16 feet high.`mammoth
The word "puppy" comes from the French ----------, meaning "doll."`poupee
The word "struthious" refers to something that resembles or is related to ----------`ostriches
The world's fastest reptile (measured on land) is the spiny-tailed ---------- of Costa Rica. It has been clocked at 21.7 miles per hour.`iguana
The world's largest mammal, the blue whale, weighs 50 tons at birth. Fully grown, it weighs as much as ---------- tons`one hundred and fifty
The world's largest rodent is the Capybara. An Amazon water hog that looks like a guinea pig, it can weigh more than ---------- pounds.`one hundred
Thinking that its parents were a camel and a leopard, the Europeans once called the animal a "camelopard." Today, it is called the ----------`giraffe
Thirty thousand monkeys were used in the massive three-year effort to classify the various types of ----------`polio
Tiger cubs are born blind and weigh only about 2 to 3 pounds (1 kg), depending on the subspecies. They live on milk for 6 to 8 weeks before the female begins taking them to kills to feed. Tigers have fully developed canines by 16 months of age, but they do not begin making their own kills until about ----------`18 months of age
Today's oldest form of horse is the Przewalski, or Mongolian Wild Horse. Survivors of this breed were discovered in the Gobi Desert in ----------`1881
Toothed ---------- whales live in extended family units that, for families, constitute life-long associations. They differ from baleen whales, which form only temporary bonds.`sperm
To survive, most birds must eat at least half their own weight in food ----------`each day
Traveling at a rate of 2 to 3 miles per hour, camels can carry 500 to 1,000 pounds on their backs. They are able to keep up this pace for 6 or 7 hours a day. Camels will refuse to carry loads that are not properly ----------`balanced
Tunas will suffocate if they ever stop ----------. They need a continual flow of water across their gills to breathe, even while they rest.`swimming
Tuna swim at a steady rate of 9 miles per hour for an indefinite period of time - and they never stop moving. Estimates indicate that a 15-year-old tuna travels one million miles in its ----------`lifetime
---------- turtles may breed for the first time when they are between 25 to 50 years old. This figure varies, depending upon the creature's range and the diet of the maturing turtle.`green
Turtles survived the upheavals of the last 200 million years, including the great extinction episode that eliminated the dinosaurs. Now, about half of the world's turtle species face possible extinction - due in large part to a growing demand for turtles as a popular dining delicacy and a source of ----------`traditional medicines
Unlike dolphins, porpoises are not very ----------`sociable
Unlike most fish, electric eels cannot get enough oxygen from water. Approximately every five minutes, they must surface to breathe, or they will drown. Unlike most fish, they can swim both ----------`backwards and forwards
Unrelated to the chicken, the male ---------- bird earned the name "cock" because of its rooster-like appearance and combative behavior. The female of the species influenced the word "rock" being added to the name because of her habit of nesting and rearing the young in sheltered rock niches.`cock-of-the-rock
Very unusual for carnivores, hyena clans are dominated by ----------`females
Wandering ---------- spread their wings, clack bills, and shake heads in a ritual dance. Bonds between courting birds may last the whole of a 50-year lifetime.`albatrosses
We are sure that whales and dolphins had land-living ancestors, but we don't know what they were like and we don't know how they ----------`evolved
Weighing approximately 13 pounds at birth, a baby caribou will double its weight in just ----------`10 days
---------- were domesticated around 4,000 years ago.`camels
What do bats' wings, elephants' ears, flamingos' legs, rabbits' ears, goats' horns, and human skin all have in common? They radiate heat to providing ----------`cooling
When a desert ---------- spends the summer of the dry season in a burrow, it is "estivating." When an animal estivates, its metabolism slows and its temperature drops. Animals estivate or hibernate in response to extremes in temperature or lack of food or water.`tortoise
When a(n) ---------- exerts itself, gets angry, or stays out of the water for too long, it exudes red, sweatlike mucus through its skin.`hippopotamus
When a school of baby ---------- are threatened, their father opens his huge mouth and the youngsters swim inside to hide. When danger has passed, he reopens his mouth and lets the fry out.`catfish
When thirsty, a camel can swig down 25 gallons of water in less than ----------`three minutes
When under extreme stress, such as when held in captivity, some octopuses will eat their own arms, which ----------`grow back
When young, the hoatzin, a crested, olive-colored South American bird, has claws on its ----------`wings
While awake, hummingbirds must eat at least every 30 minutes or they will starve to death. They need to eat 2.5 times their body weight every day - this takes hundreds of ---------- everyday.`flowers
While dangerous to swimmers, the fact remains that ---------- are much less dangerous than sharks.`barracudas
While many people believe that a camel's humps are used for water storage, they are actually made up of ----------. The hump of a well-rested, well-fed camel can weigh up to eighty pounds.`fat
While some sharks lay eggs, blue sharks give birth to live ----------, as do about two-thirds of all sharks, estimated at nearly 350 species.`pups
While the bones of most airborne birds are hollow for lightness, ---------- are endowed with solid bones for ballast when they dive, sometimes to 850 feet or more.`penguins
Wildlife biologists estimate that as many as five out of six fawns starve to death during a hard winter in ----------`vermont
Within the hawk, or birds of prey, family, there are ---------- species - eagles, hawks, kites, and Old World vultures, which are found nearly worldwide.`two hundred and eight
With only a four-week gestation period, a cottontail ---------- can produce 5 to 7 litters, and as many as 35 offspring per year.`rabbit
Wolf packs could be found in all the forests of Europe, and in 1420 and 1438, wolves roamed the streets of ----------`paris
You can identify a(n) ---------- bear's mark by the sign of five claws. A black bear will lacerate a tree trunk with four claws.`grizzly
You can tell the sex of a horse by its teeth. Most males have 40, females have ----------`thirty six
You could milk about ---------- cows per hour by hand, but with modern machinery, you can milk up to 100 cows per hour.`six
Young birds such as ducks, geese, and shore birds are born with their ----------`eyes open
Zebus are humped cattle found in India, China, and northern Africa. Zebubs are tsetse-like flies found in ----------`ethiopia
Crocodiles are ______ blind`colour
Crocodiles carry their ____ in their mouths`young
Crocodiles swallow ______ to help them dive deeper`stones
Elephants are the only animals that can't`jump
